.\" tuxpaint.1 - 2018.08.19
.TH TUXPAINT 1 "19 August 2018" "0.9.23" "Tux Paint"
.SH NAME
tuxpaint -- "Tux Paint", a drawing program for young children.

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-help \-\-version \-\-verbose\-version \-\-usage \-\-copying]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-fullscreen]
.br
[\-\-allowscreensaver]
.br
[\-\-WIDTHxHEIGHT]
.br
[\-\-native]
.br
[\-\-orient=portrait]
.br
[\-\-startblank]
.br
[\-\-nosound]
.br
[\-\-noquit]
.br
[\-\-noprint]
.br
[\-\-printdelay=\fISECONDS\fP]
.br
[\-\-printcfg]
.br
[\-\-altprintalways | \-\-altprintnever]
.br
[\-\-papersize \fIPAPERSIZE\fP | \-\-papersize help]
.br
[\-\-simpleshapes]
.br
[\-\-uppercase]
.br
[\-\-grab]
.br
[\-\-noshortcuts]
.br
[\-\-nowheelmouse]
.br
[\-\-nobuttondistinction]
.br
[\-\-nofancycursors]
.br
[\-\-hidecursor]
.br
[\-\-nooutlines]
.br
[\-\-nostamps]
.br
[\-\-nostampcontrols]
.br
[\-\-nomagiccontrols]
.br
[\-\-nolabel]
.br
[\-\-mirrorstamps]
.br
[\-\-mouse-accessibility]
.br
[\-\-onscreen-keyboard]
.br
[\-\-joystick-dev=\fIDEVICE\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-dev=list]
.br
[\-\-joystick-slowness=\fISPEED\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-threshold=\fITHRESHOLD\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-maxsteps=\fISTEPS\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-hat-timeout=\fIMILLISECONDS\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-hat-slowness=\fISPEED\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-escape=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-brush=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-stamp=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-lines=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-shapes=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-text=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-label=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-magic=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-undo=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-redo=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-eraser=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-new=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-open=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-save=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-pgsetup=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-print=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-buttons-ignore=\fIBUTTON1,BUTTON2,...\fP]
.br
[\-\-stampsize=\fISIZE\fP]
.br
[\-\-keyboard]
.br
[\-\-nosysfonts]
.br
[\-\-alllocalefonts]
.br
[\-\-savedir \fIDIR\fP]
.br
[\-\-datadir \fIDIR\fP]
.br
[\-\-saveover]
.br
[\-\-saveovernew]
.br
[\-\-nosave]
.br
[\-\-autosave]
.br
[\-\-colorfile \fIFILE\fP]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint (defaults)
[\-\-windowed]
.br
[\-\-disablescreensaver]
.br
[\-\-800x600]
.br
[\-\-orient=landscape]
.br
[\-\-startlast]
.br
[\-\-sound]
.br
[\-\-quit]
.br
[\-\-print]
.br
[\-\-printdelay=0]
.br
[\-\-noprintcfg]
.br
[\-\-altprintmod]
.br
[\-\-complexshapes]
.br
[\-\-mixedcase]
.br
[\-\-dontgrab]
.br
[\-\-shortcuts]
.br
[\-\-wheelmouse]
.br
[\-\-buttondistinction]
.br
[\-\-fancycursors]
.br
[\-\-showcursor]
.br
[\-\-outlines]
.br
[\-\-stamps]
.br
[\-\-stampcontrols]
.br
[\-\-magiccontrols]
.br
[\-\-label]
.br
[\-\-dontmirrorstamps]
.br
[\-\-stampsize=default]
.br
[\-\-mouse]
.br
[\-\-sysfonts]
.br
[\-\-currentlocalefont]
.br
[\-\-saveoverask]
.br
[\-\-save]
.br
[\-\-noautosave]
.br

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-locale \fILOCALE\fP]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-lang \fILANGUAGE\fP | \-\-lang help]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-nosysconfig]
.br
[\-\-nolockfile]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fITux Paint\fP is a drawing program for young children.  It is meant to be
easy and fun to use.  It provides a simple interface and fixed canvas size,
and provides access to previous images using a thumbnail browser
(i.e., no access to the underlying filesystem).

Unlike popular drawing programs like "\fIThe GIMP\fP," it has a very limited
toolset. However, it provides a much simpler interface, and has entertaining,
child-oriented additions such as sound effects.

.SH OPTIONS - INFORMATIONAL
.TP 8
.B \-\-help
Display short, helpful information about Tux Paint.
.TP 8
.B \-\-version
Output the version info.
.TP 8
.B \-\-verbose\-version
Output the version info and compile-time build options.
.TP 8
.B \-\-usage
Display a list of all commandline options.
.TP 8
.B \-\-copying
Show the license (GNU GPL) under which Tux Paint is released.

.SH OPTIONS - INTERFACE
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter the interface.
They can be used along with, instead of, or to override options set in
configuration files. (See below.)
.TP 8
.B \-\-fullscreen \-\-windowed
Run \fITux Paint\fP in full-screen mode, or in a window (default).

.TP 8
.B \-\-allowscreensaver \-\-disablescreensaver
Normally, \fItuxpaint\fP disables your screensaver. Use \-\-allowscreensaver
to prevent this from happening.

.TP 8
.B \-\-native
When in fullscreen mode, use the system's default screen resolution.

.TP 8
.B \-\-WIDTHxHEIGHT
Run \fITux Paint\fP in a particularly-sized window, or at a particular
fullscreen resolution (if \-\-native is not used).  Default is 800x600.
Minimum width is 640.  Minimum height is 480.  Portrait and landscape
orientations are both supported.  (Also see \-\-orient, below.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-orient=landscape \-\-orient=portrait
If \-\-orient=portraitis set, asks \fITux Paint\fP to swap the WIDTH and HEIGHT
values it uses for windowed or fullscreen mode, without having to actually
change the WIDTH and HEIGHT values in the configuration file or on the
command-line. (This is useful on devices where the screen can be rotated,
e.g. tablet PCs.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nosound \-\-sound
Disable or enable (default) sound.

.TP 8
.B \-\-noquit \-\-quit
Disable or enable (default) the on-screen \fIQuit\fP button and \fIEscape\fP
key sequence for quitting \fITux Paint\fP.  Instead, use the window close
button in the titlebar, the \fIAlt+F4\fP key sequence, or the
\fIShift+Control+Escape\fP key sequence.

.TP 8
.B \-\-noprint \-\-print
Disable or enable (default) the \fIPrint\fP command within \fITux Paint\fP.

.TP 8
.B \-\-printdelay=\fISECONDS\fP \-\-printdelay=0
Only allow printing (via the \fIPrint\fP command) once every \fISECONDS\fP
seconds.  Default is 0 (no limitation).

.TP 8
.B \-\-printcfg \-\-noprintcfg
(Windows and Mac OS X only.)  Enable or disable loading and saving of
printer settings.  By default, \fITux Paint\fP will print to the default
printer with default settings.  Pressing \fI[ALT]\fP while pushing the
\fIPrint\fP button will cause a printer dialog to appear (as long as you're
not in fullscreen mode; see also \-\-altprintalways and \-\-altprintnever,
below.)  Unless \-\-noprintcfg is used, your previous settings will
be loaded when \fITux Paint\fP starts up, and setting changes will be saved
for next time.

.TP 8
.B \-\-altprintmod \-\-altprintnever \-\-altprintalways
These options control whether an system printer dialog appears when the
user clicks the \fIPrint\fP button.  By default (\-\-altprintmod), pressing
\fI[ALT]\fP while clicking \fIPrint\fP will bring up a dialog (unless you're
in fullscreen mode).  With \-\-altprintalways, the dialog will always appear,
even if \fI[ALT]\fP is not being held.  With \-\-altprintnever, the dialog
will never appear, even if \fI[ALT]\fP is being held.

.TP 8
.B \-\-papersize \fIPAPERSIZE\fP
(Only when PostScript printing is used \- not Windows, Mac OS X or BeOS.)
Ask \fITux Paint\fP to generate PostScript of a particular paper size.
Valid sizes are those supported by libpaper.  See papersize(5).

.TP 8
.B \-\-simpleshapes \-\-complexshapes
Disable or enable (default) the \fIrotation\fP step when using the
\fIShape\fP tool within \fITux Paint\fP.  When disabled, shapes cannot be
rotated; however, the interface is easier (click, drag, release), which can
be useful for younger or disabled children.

.TP 8
.B \-\-uppercase \-\-mixedcase
In \fIuppercase\fP mode, all text prompts and the \fIText\fP drawing tool
will display only uppercase letters.  This is useful for children who are not
yet comfortable with the lowercase characterset.  Default mode is
\fImixed case\fP.

.TP 8
.B \-\-grab \-\-nograb
Grab the mouse and keyboard input (if possible), so that the mouse is
confined to the \fITux Paint\fP window.  Default is to not grab.

.TP 8
.B \-\-noshortcuts \-\-shortcuts
If \fInoshortcuts\fP mode, keyboard shortcuts (e.g., Ctrl+S for Save)
will be disabled.  Default mode is \fIshortcuts enabled\fP.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nowheelmouse \-\-wheelmouse
By default, the wheel (jog dial) on a mouse will be used to scroll the
\fIselector\fP on the right of the screen.  This can be disabled, and the
wheel completely ignored, with the \fI\-\-nowheelmouse\fP option.
This is useful for children who aren't yet comfortable with the mouse.
Default is to support the wheel.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nobuttondistinction \-\-buttondistinction
By default, only mouse button #1 (typically the leftmost mouse button
on mice with more than one button) can be used for interacting with
\fITux Paint\fP.  With the \fI\-\-nobuttondistinction\fP option,
mouse buttons #2 (middle) and #3 (right) can be used, as well.
This is useful for children who aren't yet comfortable with the mouse.
Default is to only recognize button #1.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nofancycursors \-\-fancycursors
Disable or enable (default) the 'fancy' mouse pointer shapes in \fITux Paint\fP.
While the shapes are larger, and context sensitive, some environments have
trouble displaying the mouse pointer, and/or leave 'trails' on the screen.

.TP 8
.B \-\-hidecursor \-\-showcursor
Completely hide, or enable (default) the mouse pointer in \fITux Paint\fP.
This can be useful on touchscreen devices, such as tablet PCs.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nooutlines \-\-outlines
In \fInooutlines\fP mode, much simpler outlines and 'rubber-band' lines are
displayed when using the \fILines\fP, \fIShapes\fP, \fIStamps\fP and
\fIEraser\fP tools. (This can help when \fITux Paint\fP is run on slower
computers, or displayed on a remote X display.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostamps \-\-stamps
With \fInostamps\fP set, Rubber Stamp images are not loaded, so the
\fIStamps\fP tool will not be available.  This option can be used to reduce
the time Tux Paint takes to load, and reduce the amount of RAM it requires.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostampcontrols \-\-stampcontrols
Disable or enable (default) buttons to control stamps.  Controls include
mirror, flip, shrink and grow.  (Note: Not all stamps will be controllable
in all ways.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nomagiccontrols \-\-magiccontrols
Disable or enable (default) buttons to control Magic tools.  Controls include
controlling whether a Magic tool is used like a paint brush, or if it
affects the entire image at once.  (Note: Not all Magic tools will be
controllable.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nolabel \-\-label
Disable or enable (default) the \fILabel\fP tool, which lets you create
text which can be altered or moved later.

.TP 8
.B \-\-mirrorstamps \-\-dontmirrorstamps
With \fImirrorstamps\fP set, stamps which can be mirrored will appear
mirrored by default.  This can be useful when used by people who prefer
things right-to-left over left-to-right.

.TP 8
.B \-\-mouse-accessibility
In this mode, instead of clicking, dragging and releasing (e.g., to draw),
you click, move, and click again to end the motion.

.TP 8
.B \-\-onscreen-keyboard
Presents a clickable on-screen keyboard when using the \fIText\fP and
\fILabel\fP tools.

.TP 8
.B \-\-stampsize=\fIsize\fP \-\-stampsize=default
Sets the default size of all stamps, relative to their possible sizes
(determined by \fITux Paint\fP, based on the dimensions of both the stamps
themselves, and the drawing canvas).  Valid values are from 0 (smallest)
to 10 (largest).  Use \fIdefault\fP to let \fITux Paint\fP choose
(this is the default setting).

.TP 8
.B \-\-keyboard \-\-mouse
The \fIkeyboard\fP option lets the mouse pointer in \fITux Paint\fP be
controlled with the keyboard.  The \fIarrow keys\fP move the pointer.
\fISpacebar\fP acts as the mouse button.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nosysfonts \-\-sysfonts
\fITux Paint\fP normally attempts to search for additional TrueType Fonts
installed in common places on your system.  If this causes trouble, or you'd
prefer to only make fonts installed in \fITux Paint\fP's directory available,
use the \fInosysfonts\fP option to disable this feature.

.TP 8
.B \-\-alllocalefonts \-\-currentlocalefont
Tux Paint avoids loading any fonts in its 'locale' font subdirectory,
except any that match the current locale \fITux Paint\fP is running under.
Use the \fIalllocalefonts\fP option to load all such fonts, for use in the
"Text" tool. (This is the old behavior, prior to version 0.9.21.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-savedir \fIDIR\fP
Specify where \fITux Paint\fP should save files.

.TP 8
.B \-\-datadir \fIDIR\fP
Specify where \fITux Paint\fP should look for personal data files
(brushes, stamps, etc.).

.TP 8
.B \-\-saveover \-\-saveovernew \-\-saveoverask
If, when saving a picture, an older version of the file will be overwritten,
\fITux Paint\fP will, by default, ask for confirmation: either
\fIsave over\fP the old file, or \fIcreate\fP a new file.  This prompt
can be disabled with \fI\-\-saveover\fP (which always saves over older versions
of pictures) or \fI\-\-saveovernew\fP (which always saves a new file).
The default is to prompt (\fI\-\-saveoverask\fP).

.TP 8
.B \-\-nosave \-\-save
The \fInosave\fP option disables \fITux Paint's\fP ability to save files.
This can be used in situations where the program is only being used for
fun, or in a test environment.

.TP 8
.B \-\-autosave \-\-noautosave
The \fIautosave\fP option prevents \fITux Paint\fP from asking whether you
want to save the current picture when quitting, and assumes you do.

.TP 8
.B \-\-startblank \-\-startlast
When you start \fITux Paint\fP, it loads the last image that was being worked
on.  The \fI\-\-startblank\fP option disables this, so it always starts with
a blank canvas.  The default behavior is \fI\-\-startlast\fP.

.TP 8
.B \-\-colorfile \fIFILE\fP
This option allows you to override the default color palette in \fITux Paint\fP
and replace it with your own. The file should be a plain ASCII text file
containing one color description per line. Colors may be in decimal or
6- or 3-digit hexadecimal, and followed by a description. (For example,
"\fI#000 Black\fP" and "\fI255 192 64 Orange\fP".)

.SH OPTIONS - LANGUAGE
.l
Various parts of \fITux Paint\fP have been translated into numerous languages.
\fITux Paint\fP will try its best to honor your \fIlocale\fP setting
(i.e., the \fILANG\fP environment variable), if possible.
You can also specifically set the language using options on the command-line
or in a configuration file.

.TP 8
.B \-\-locale \fILOCALE\fP
Specify the language to use, based on locale name (which is typically of the
form \fIlanguage\fP[_\fIterritory\fP][.\fIcodeset\fP][@\fImodifier\fP],
where \fIlanguage\fP is an ISO 639 language code,
\fIterritory\fP is an ISO 3166 country code, and
\fIcodeset\fP is a character set or encoding identifier like ISO-8859-1 or
UTF-8.)
.PP
.RS
For example, \fIde_DE@euro\fP for German, or \fIpt_BR\fP
for Brazilian Portuguese.
.RE

.TP 8
.B \-\-lang \fILANGUAGE\fP
Specify the language to use, based on the language's name
(as recognized by \fITux Paint\fP).  Choose one of the language names
listed below:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 2
-
english | american-english
.TP 2
-
acholi | acoli
.TP 2
-
afrikaans
.TP 2
-
akan | twi-fante
.TP 2
-
albanian
.TP 2
-
amharic
.TP 2
-
arabic
.TP 2
-
aragones
.TP 2
-
armenian | hayeren
.TP 2
-
assamese
.TP 2
-
asturian
.TP 2
-
azerbaijani
.TP 2
-
australian-english
.TP 2
-
bambara
.TP 2
-
basque | euskara
.TP 2
-
belarusian | bielaruskaja
.TP 2
-
bengali
.TP 2
-
bodo
.TP 2
-
bokmal
.TP 2
-
bosnian
.TP 2
-
brazilian-portuguese | portugues-brazilian | brazilian
.TP 2
-
breton | brezhoneg
.TP 2
-
british | british-english
.TP 2
-
bulgarian
.TP 2
-
canadian-english
.TP 2
-
catalan | catala
.TP 2
-
chinese | simplified-chinese
.TP 2
-
croatian | hrvatski
.TP 2
-
czech | cesky
.TP 2
-
danish | dansk
.TP 2
-
dogri
.TP 2
-
dutch | nederlands
.TP 2
-
esperanto
.TP 2
-
estonian
.TP 2
-
faroese
.TP 2
-
finnish | suomi
.TP 2
-
french | francais
.TP 2
-
fula | fulah | pulaar-fulfulde
.TP 2
-
gaelic | irish-gaelic | gaidhlig
.TP 2
-
galician | galego
.TP 2
-
georgian
.TP 2
-
german | deutsch
.TP 2
-
greek
.TP 2
-
gronings | zudelk-veenkelonioals
.TP 2
-
gujarati
.TP 2
-
hebrew
.TP 2
-
hindi
.TP 2
-
hungarian | magyar
.TP 2
-
icelandic | islenska
.TP 2
-
indonesian | bahasa-indonesia
.TP 2
-
inuktitut
.TP 2
-
italian | italiano
.TP 2
-
japanese
.TP 2
-
kabyle | kabylian
.TP 2
-
kannada
.TP 2
-
kashmiri-devanagari
.TP 2
-
kashmiri-perso-arabic
.TP 2
-
kiga | chiga
.TP 2
-
kinyarwanda
.TP 2
-
khmer
.TP 2
-
klingon | tlhIngan
.TP 2
-
konkani-devaganari
.TP 2
-
konkani-roman
.TP 2
-
korean
.TP 2
-
kurdish
.TP 2
-
latvian
.TP 2
-
lithuanian | lietuviu
.TP 2
-
luganda
.TP 2
-
luxembourgish | letzebuergesch
.TP 2
-
macedonian
.TP 2
-
maithili
.TP 2
-
malay
.TP 2
-
malayalam
.TP 2
-
manipuri-bengali
.TP 2
-
manipuri-meitei-mayek
.TP 2
-
marathi
.TP 2
-
mexican-spanish | espanol-mejicano | mexican
.TP 2
-
mongolian
.TP 2
-
ndebele
.TP 2
-
nepali
.TP 2
-
northern-sotho | sesotho-sa-leboa
.TP 2
-
norwegian | nynorsk | norsk
.TP 2
-
occitan
.TP 2
-
odia | oriya
.TP 2
-
ojibway | ojibwe
.TP 2
-
persian
.TP 2
-
polish | polski
.TP 2
-
portuguese | portugues
.TP 2
-
punjabi | panjabi
.TP 2
-
romanian
.TP 2
-
russian | russkiy
.TP 2
-
sanskrit
.TP 2
-
santali-devaganari
.TP 2
-
santali-ol-chiki
.TP 2
-
scottish | scottish-gaelic | ghaidhlig
.TP 2
-
serbian
.TP 2
-
serbian-latin
.TP 2
-
shuswap | secwepemctin
.TP 2
-
shuswap-devanagari
.TP 2
-
sindhi-perso-arabic
.TP 2
-
slovak
.TP 2
-
slovenian | slovensko
.TP 2
-
songhay
.TP 2
-
southafrican-english
.TP 2
-
spanish | espanol
.TP 2
-
sundanese
.TP 2
-
swahili
.TP 2
-
swedish | svenska
.TP 2
-
tagalog
.TP 2
-
tamil
.TP 2
-
telugu
.TP 2
-
thai
.TP 2
-
tibetan
.TP 2
-
traditional-chinese
.TP 2
-
turkish
.TP 2
-
twi
.TP 2
-
ukrainian
.TP 2
-
urdu
.TP 2
-
valencian
.TP 2
-
venda
.TP 2
-
venetian | veneto
.TP 2
-
vietnamese
.TP 2
-
walloon | walon
.TP 2
-
welsh | cymraeg
.TP 2
-
wolof
.TP 2
-
xhosa
.TP 2
-
zapotec | miahuatlan-zapotec
.TP 2
-
zulu
.RE
.PD

.TP 8
.B \-\-lang help
Display a lists of all supported languages.

.SH OPTIONS - MISCELLANEOUS
.TP 8
.B \-\-nosysconfig
With this option, \fITux Paint\fP will not attempt to read the
system-wide configuration file (typically \fI/etc/tuxpaint/tuxpaint.conf\fP).

.TP 8
.B \-\-nolockfile
By default, \fITux Paint\fP uses a lockfile (stored in the user's
local Tux Paint directory) which prevents it from being launched more than
once in 30 seconds. (Sometimes children get too eager, or user interfaces
only require one click, but users think they need to double-click.)
This option makes \fITux Paint\fP ignore the current lockfile.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.ad l
While \fITux Paint\fP may refer to a number of environment variables indirectly
(e.g., via \fISDL(3)\fP), it only directly accesses the following:
.PP
.TP 8
.B HOME
to determine where picture files go when using the \fISave\fP and \fIOpen\fP
commands within \fITux Paint\fP, to keep track of the current image,
when quitting and restarting \fITux Paint\fP, and to get the user's
configuration file. 

.TP 8
.B LANG
to determine language to use, if \fIsetlocale(3)\fP refers to 'LC_MESSAGES'.

.SH FILES
.TP 8
.B /etc/tuxpaint/tuxpaint.conf
System-wide configuration file.  It is read first
(unless the \fI\-\-nosysconfig\fP option was given on the command-line).
.RS
.PP
(Created during installation.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaintrc
User's configuration file.  It can be used to set default options
(rather than setting them on the command-line every time), and/or to
override any settings in the system-wide configuration file.
.RS
.PP
(Not created or edited automatically; must be created manually.
You can do this by hand, or use '\fITux Paint Config.\fP.')
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/saved/
A directory of previously-saved images (and thumbnails).  Only files in this
directory will be made available using the \fIOpen\fP command within
\fITux Paint\fP.  (See \fItuxpaint-import(1)\fP.)
.RS
.PP
(Created when \fISave\fP command is used.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/current_id.txt
A reference to the image which was being edited when \fITux Paint\fP was
last quit.  (This image is automatically loaded the next time \fITux Paint\fP
is re-run.)
.RS
.PP
(Created when \fITux Paint\fP is \fIQuit\fP.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/lockfile.dat
A lockfile that prevents \fITux Paint\fP from being launched more than once
every 30 seconds.  Disable checking the lockfile by using the
\'\-\-nolockfile\' command-line argument.
.RS
.PP
(There's no reason to delete the lockfile, as it contains a timestamp
inside which causes it to expire after 30 seconds.)
.RE

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

.SH OTHER INFO
The canonical place to find \fITux Paint\fP information is at
http://www.tuxpaint.org/.

.SH AUTHORS
Bill Kendrick.  <bill@newbreedsoftware.com>

With patches, fixes, extensions, translation, documentation and more from
lots of people, including, but not limited to:

Aki,
Ashish Arora,
Khalid Al Holan,
Daniel Andersson,
Hodorog Andrei,
Joana Portia Antwi-Danso,
Adorilson Bezerra de Araujo,
Xandru Armesto,
Ben Armstrong,
Ravishankar Ayyakkannu,
Dwayne Bailey,
Martin Benjamin,
Denis Bodor,
Yacine Bouklif,
René Brandenburger,
Herman Bruyninckx,
Lucie Burianova,
Laurentiu Buzdugan,
Albert Cahalan,
Pere Pujal Carabantes,
Ouychai Chaita,
Zden¿k Chalupský,
Wei-Lun Chao,
Jacques Chion,
Ankit Choudary,
Abdoul Cisse,
Urska Colner,
Adam 'akanewbie' Corcoran,
Helder Correia,
Ricardo Cruz,
Laurent Dhima,
Chandrakant Dhutadmal,
Yavor Doganov,
Joe Dalton,
Dawa Dolma,
Kevin Donnelly,
Ander Elortondo,
Alberto Escudero-Pascual,
Jamil Farzana,
Doruk Fisek,
Dovix,
Korvigellou An Drouizig (Philippe),
Fabian Franz,
Derrick Frimpong,
Martin Fuhrer,
Fula Localization Project,
Gabriel Gazzan,
Alexander Geroimenko,
Torsten Giebl,
Solomon Gizaw,
Robert Glowczynski,
Chris Goerner,
Mikel González,
Volker Grabsch,
The Greek Linux i18n Team,
Edmund GRIMLEY EVANS,
Frederico Goncalves Guimaraes,
Joe Hanson,
Sam "Criswell" Hart,
Guy Hed,
Farinaz Hedayat,
Tedi Heriyanto,
Pjetur G. Hjaltason,
Knut Erik Hollund,
Khaled Hosny,
Henry House,
Mohomodou Houssouba,
Song Huang,
Karl Ove Hufthammer,
Roland Illig,
Indigenas Sin Fronteras,
Juan Irigoien,
Students of Vocational Higher Secondary School Irimpanam,
Ivana Rakic,
Dmitriy Ivanov,
Mogens Jaeger,
Lis Gøthe í Jákupsstovu,
Nedjeljko Jedvaj,
Aleksandar Jelenak,
Rasmus Erik Voel Jensen,
Wang Jian,
Amed Ç. Jiyan,
Petri Jooste,
Richard June,
Andrej Kacian,
Thomas Kalka,
Jorma Karvonen,
Kazuhiko,
Gabor Kelemen,
Mark Kim,
Thomas Klausner,
Koby,
Marcin 'Shard' Konicki,
Ines Kovacevic,
Mantas Kriauciunas,
Freek de Kruijf,
Andrzej M. Krzysztofowicz,
Piotr Kwilinski,
Serafeim Kyriaki,
Matthew Lange,
Fabio Lazarin,
Niko Lewman,
Arkadiusz Lipiec,
Ricky Lontoc,
Dag H. Loras,
Burkhard Luck,
Vincent Mahlangu,
Ankit Malik,
Neskie Manuel,
Fred Ulisses Maranhao,
Yannig MARCHEGAY (Kokoyaya),
Jorge Mariano,
Martin,
Sergio Marques,
Pheledi Mathibela,
Scott McCreary,
Marco Milanesi,
Kartik Mistry,
Mugunth,
Steve Murphy,
Samuel Murray (Groenkloof),
Shumani Mercy Nehulaudzi,
Mikkel Kirkgaard Nielsen,
Alesis Novik,
Daniel Nylander,
Olli,
James Olweny,
Teresa Orive,
Gareth Owen,
Sorin Paliga,
Yannis Papatzikos,
Nikolay Parukhin,
Alessandro Pasotti,
Flavio Pastor,
Patrick,
George Patrick,
Primoz Peterlin,
Le Quang Phan,
Henrik Pihl,
Auk Piseth,
Pablo Pita,
Milan Plzik,
Sergei Popov,
John Popplewell,
Rodrigo Perez Ramirez and Indigenas Sin Fronteras,
Adam 'foo-script' Rakowski,
Rodrigo Perez Ramirez,
Robert Readman,
Leandro Regueiro,
Simona Riva,
Robin Rosenberg,
Ilir Rugova,
Jaroslav Rynik,
Bert Saal,
Ibraahiima SAAR,
Saikumar,
Samuel Sarpong,
Kevin Patrick Scannell,
Stephanie Schilling,
Kiriaki SERAFEIM,
Pavithran Shakamuri,
Gia Shervashidze,
Clytie Siddall,
Kliment Simoncev,
Sokratis Sofianopoulos,
Khoem Sokhem,
Geert Stams,
Peter Sterba,
Raivis Strogonovs,
Tomasz 'karave' Tarach,
Michal Terbert,
Ignacia Tike,
Tilo,
Tarmo Toikkanen,
TOYAMA Shin-ichi,
Niall Tracey,
tropikhajma,
Florence Tushabe,
Matej Urban,
Rita Verbauskaite,
Daniel Jose Viana,
Charles Vidal,
Darrell Walisser,
Frank Weng,
Damian Yerrick,
Muhammad Najmi Ahmad Zabidi,
Eugene Zelenko,
Martin Zhekov,
and
Huang Zuzhen.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuxpaint-import (1),
.BR tuxpaint-config (1),
.BR tp-magic-config (1),
.BR xpaint (1),
.BR gpaint (1),
.BR gimp (1),
.BR kolourpaint (1),
.BR krita (1),
.BR gcompris (1)
.PP
And documentation within /usr/[local/]share/doc/tuxpaint/.
