.\" tuxpaint.1 - 2023.07.20
.TH TUXPAINT 1 "2023年7月20日" "0.9.31" "Tux Paint"
.SH NAME
tuxpaint -- "Tux Paint", a drawing program for young children.

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-help \-\-version \-\-verbose\-version \-\-usage \-\-copying]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-fullscreen {yes|native|no}]
.br
[\-\-allowscreensaver]
.br
[\-\-\fIWIDTH\fPx\fIHEIGHT\fP]
.br
[\-\-native]
.br
[\-\-orient=portrait]
.br
[\-\-buttonsize \fISIZE\fP | \-\-buttonsize auto]
.br
[\-\-startblank]
.br
[\-\-nosound]
.br
[\-\-nostereo]
.br
[\-\-noquit]
.br
[\-\-noprint]
.br
[\-\-printdelay=\fISECONDS\fP]
.br
[\-\-printcfg]
.br
[\-\-altprintalways | \-\-altprintnever]
.br
[\-\-papersize \fIPAPERSIZE\fP | \-\-papersize help]
.br
[\-\-printcommand \fICOMMAND\fP]
.br
[\-\-altprintcommand \fICOMMAND\fP]
.br
[\-\-simpleshapes]
.br
[\-\-uppercase]
.br
[\-\-grab]
.br
[\-\-noshortcuts]
.br
[\-\-nowheelmouse]
.br
[\-\-nobuttondistinction]
.br
[\-\-nofancycursors]
.br
[\-\-hidecursor]
.br
[\-\-nooutlines]
.br
[\-\-nostamps]
.br
[\-\-nostampcontrols]
.br
[\-\-nostamprotation]
.br
[\-\-nomagiccontrols]
.br
[\-\-nomagicsizes]
.br
[\-\-noshapecontrols]
.br
[\-\-nolabel]
.br
[\-\-nobrushspacing]
.br
[\-\-notemplateexport]
.br
[\-\-newcolorslast]
.br
[\-\-mirrorstamps]
.br
[\-\-colorsrows=\fIROWS\fP]
.br
[\-\-mouse-accessibility]
.br
[\-\-onscreen-keyboard]
.br
[\-\-onscreen-keyboard-layout \fILAYOUT\fP]
.br
[\-\-onscreen-keyboard-disable-change]
.br
[\-\-joystick-dev=\fIDEVICE\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-dev=list]
.br
[\-\-joystick-slowness=\fISPEED\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-threshold=\fITHRESHOLD\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-maxsteps=\fISTEPS\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-hat-timeout=\fIMILLISECONDS\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-hat-slowness=\fISPEED\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-escape=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-brush=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-stamp=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-lines=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-shapes=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-text=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-label=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-magic=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-undo=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-redo=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-eraser=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-new=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-open=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-save=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-pgsetup=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-btn-print=\fIBUTTON\fP]
.br
[\-\-joystick-buttons-ignore=\fIBUTTON1,BUTTON2,...\fP]
.br
[\-\-stampsize=\fISIZE\fP]
.br
[\-\-keyboard]
.br
[\-\-nosysfonts]
.br
[\-\-alllocalefonts]
.br
[\-\-uifont \fIFONT NAME\fP]
.br
[\-\-savedir \fIDIR\fP]
.br
[\-\-exportdir \fIDIR\fP]
.br
[\-\-datadir \fIDIR\fP]
.br
[\-\-saveover]
.br
[\-\-saveovernew]
.br
[\-\-nosave]
.br
[\-\-noerase]
.br
[\-\-autosave]
.br
[\-\-reversesort]
.br
[\-\-colorfile \fIFILE\fP]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint (defaults)
[\-\-windowed]
.br
[\-\-disablescreensaver]
.br
[\-\-800x600]
.br
[\-\-orient=landscape]
.br
[\-\-buttonsize 48]
.br
[\-\-startlast]
.br
[\-\-sound]
.br
[\-\-stereo]
.br
[\-\-quit]
.br
[\-\-print]
.br
[\-\-printdelay=0]
.br
[\-\-noprintcfg]
.br
[\-\-altprintmod]
.br
[\-\-complexshapes]
.br
[\-\-mixedcase]
.br
[\-\-dontgrab]
.br
[\-\-shortcuts]
.br
[\-\-wheelmouse]
.br
[\-\-buttondistinction]
.br
[\-\-fancycursors]
.br
[\-\-showcursor]
.br
[\-\-outlines]
.br
[\-\-stamps]
.br
[\-\-stampcontrols]
.br
[\-\-stamprotation]
.br
[\-\-magiccontrols]
.br
[\-\-magicsizes]
.br
[\-\-shapecontrols]
.br
[\-\-label]
.br
[\-\-brushspacing]
.br
[\-\-templateexport]
.br
[\-\-newcolorsfirst]
.br
[\-\-dontmirrorstamps]
.br
[\-\-stampsize=default]
.br
[\-\-mouse]
.br
[\-\-sysfonts]
.br
[\-\-currentlocalefont]
.br
[\-\-uifont=default]
.br
[\-\-saveoverask]
.br
[\-\-save]
.br
[\-\-erase]
.br
[\-\-noautosave]
.br
[\-\-noreversesort]
.br

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-locale \fILOCALE\fP]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-lang \fILANGUAGE\fP | \-\-lang help]

.TP 9
.B tuxpaint
[\-\-nosysconfig]
.br
[\-\-nolockfile]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fITux Paint\fP is a drawing program for young children.  It is meant to be
easy and fun to use.  It provides a simple interface and fixed canvas size,
and provides access to previous images using a thumbnail browser (i.e., no
access to the underlying filesystem).

Unlike popular drawing programs like "\fIThe GIMP\fP," it has a very
limited toolset. However, it provides a much simpler interface, and has
entertaining, child-oriented additions such as sound effects.

.SH OPTIONS - INFORMATIONAL
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to emit information about the
program.  It then exits immediately (without opening a graphical window).

.TP 8
.B \-\-help
Display short, helpful information about Tux Paint.
.TP 8
.B \-\-version
Output the version info.
.TP 8
.B \-\-verbose\-version
Output the version info and compile-time build options.
.TP 8
.B \-\-usage
Display a list of all commandline options.
.TP 8
.B \-\-copying
Show the license (GNU GPL) under which Tux Paint is released.
.TP 8
.B \-\-listfonts
Display a list of fonts found by Pango (and so available to Tux Paint via --uifont).

.SH OPTIONS - INTERFACE
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter the interface.  They
can be used along with, instead of, or to override options set in
configuration files. (See below.)

.SS VIDEO
.TP 8
.B \-\-fullscreen=yes \-\-fullscreen=native \-\-fullscreen=no \-\-windowed
Run \fITux Paint\fP in full-screen mode at its default -- or a specified --
screen resolution ("--fullscreen=yes"); or in full-screen mode at the
system's native resolution ("--fullscreen=native"); or run in a window
("--fullscreen=no" or "--windowed") (default).

.TP 8
.B \-\-native
When in fullscreen mode, use the system's default screen resolution.

.TP 8
.B \-\-\fIWIDTH\fPx\fIHEIGHT\fP
Run \fITux Paint\fP in a particularly-sized window, or at a particular
fullscreen resolution (if \-\-native is not used).  Default is 800x600. 
Minimum width is 640.  Minimum height is 480.  Portrait and landscape
orientations are both supported.  (Also see \-\-orient, below.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-orient=landscape \-\-orient=portrait
If \-\-orient=portrait is set, asks \fITux Paint\fP to swap the WIDTH and
HEIGHT values it uses for windowed or fullscreen mode, without having to
actually change the WIDTH and HEIGHT values in the configuration file or on
the command-line. (This is useful on devices where the screen can be
rotated, e.g. tablet PCs.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-allowscreensaver \-\-disablescreensaver
Normally, \fItuxpaint\fP disables your screensaver. Use
\-\-allowscreensaver to prevent this from happening.

.SS SOUND
.TP 8
.B \-\-nosound \-\-sound
Disable or enable (default) sound.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostereo \-\-stereo
Disable or enable (default) stereo panning support.

.SS INTERFACE SIZE
.TP 8
.B \-\-buttonsize \fISIZE\fP \-\-buttonsize auto
Adjust the size of the buttons in \fITux Paint\fP's user interface, between
24 and 192 pixels (48 is the default, and suitable for displays with 96 to
120dpi pixel density). Use "auto" to have \fITux Paint\fP choose a button
size based on \fITux Paint\fP's window/display size.

.TP 8
.B \-\-colorsrows=\fIROWS\fP
How many rows of color palette buttons to show; useful when using a large
color palette, and/or for use with coarse input devices (like eyegaze
trackers).  It can be between 1 (default) and 3.

.SS INTERFACE SIMPLIFICATION
.TP 8
.B \-\-simpleshapes \-\-complexshapes
Disable or enable (default) the rotation step when using the Shape tool
within Tux Paint.  When disabled, shapes cannot be rotated; however, the
interface is easier (click, drag, release), which can be useful for younger
or disabled children.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nooutlines \-\-outlines
With "--nooutlines" enabled, much simpler outlines and 'rubber-band' lines
are displayed when using the Lines, Shapes, Stamps and Eraser tools. (This
can help when Tux Paint is run on slower computers, or displayed on a
remote terminal.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-uppercase \-\-mixedcase
With "--uppercase" enabled, all text prompts and the Text and Label drawing
tools will display only uppercase letters.  This is useful for children who
are not yet comfortable with the lowercase characterset.  Default mode is
mixed case.

.SS INITIAL STAMP SIZE
.TP 8
.B \-\-stampsize=\fISIZE\fP \-\-stampsize=default
Overrides the default size of all stamps, relative to their possible sizes
(determined by Tux Paint, based on the dimensions of both the stamps
themselves, and the drawing canvas).  Valid values are from 0 (smallest) to
10 (largest).  Use "--stampsize=default" to let Tux Paint choose on a
per-stamp basis (this is the default setting).

.SS STARTING OUT
.TP 8
.B \-\-startblank \-\-startlast
When you start Tux Paint, it loads the last image that was being worked on.
 The "\-\-startblank" option disables this, so it always starts with a
blank canvas.  The default behavior is "\-\-startlast".

.TP 8
.B \-\-newcolorslast \-\-newcolorsfirst
List solid (blank) colors at the end, or beginning (default) of the options
displayed when using the New tool to start a new picture.

.SS CONTROL SIMPLIFICATION
.TP 8
.B \-\-noquit \-\-quit
Disable or enable (default) the on-screen Quit button and [Escape] key for
quitting Tux Paint.  Instead, use the window close button in the titlebar,
the [Alt]+[F4] key sequence, or the [Shift]+[Control]+[Escape] key
sequence.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostamps \-\-stamps
With "--nostamps" set, Rubber Stamp images are not loaded, so the Stamps
tool will not be available.  This option can be used to reduce the time Tux
Paint takes to load, and reduce the amount of RAM it requires.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostampcontrols \-\-stampcontrols
Disable or enable (default) buttons to control stamps.  Controls include
mirror, flip, shrink and grow.  (Note: Not all stamps will be controllable
in all ways.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nostamprotation \-\-stamprotation
Disable or enable (default) the rotation step when placing a stamp in the
drawing.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nomagiccontrols \-\-magiccontrols
Disable or enable (default) buttons to control Magic tools.  Controls
include controlling whether a Magic tool is used like a paint brush, or if
it affects the entire image at once.  (Note: Not all Magic tools will be
controllable.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nomagicsizes \-\-magicsizes
Disable or enable (default) Magic size controls.  (Note: Not all Magic
tools offer size controls.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-noshapecontrols \-\-shapecontrols
Disable or enable (default) buttons to change the Shape tool's behavior --
shapes expanding from the center, or from a corner, where the mouse is
initially clicked.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nolabel \-\-label
Disable or enable (default) the Label tool, which lets you create text
which can be altered or moved later.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nobrushspacing \-\-brushspacing
Disable or enable (default) the brush spacing option of the Paint and Lines
tools, which allows you to override the default spacing of a brush.

.TP 8
.B \-\-notemplateexport \-\-templateexport
Disable or enable (default) the ability to create new Templates from saved
drawings via the Open dialog.

.TP 8
.B \-\-noerase \-\-erase
The --noerase option disables Tux Paint's ability to erase files (saved
drawings, via the Open dialog, and exported templates, via the New dialog).
Useful to prevent a user from accidentally erasing their own work, or that
of others (especially used in combination with --saveovernew).

.SH OPTIONS - CONTROLLING TUX PAINT
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter how you control Tux
Paint.  They can be used along with, instead of, or to override options set
in configuration files. (See below.)

.SS CURSOR
.TP 8
.B \-\-nofancycursors \-\-fancycursors
Disable or enable (default) the 'fancy' mouse pointer shapes in Tux Paint.
While the shapes are larger, and context sensitive, some environments have
trouble displaying the mouse pointer, and/or leave 'trails' on the screen.

.TP 8
.B \-\-hidecursor \-\-showcursor
Completely hide, or enable (default) the mouse pointer in Tux Paint. This
can be useful on touchscreen devices, such as tablet PCs.

.SS KEYBOARD
.TP 8
.B \-\-noshortcuts \-\-shortcuts
If "--noshortcuts" mode, keyboard shortcuts (e.g., [Ctrl]+[S] for Save)
will be disabled.  Default mode is for shortcuts to be enabled.

.SS MOUSE AND ACCESSIBILITY
.TP 8
.B \-\-grab \-\-dontgrab
Grab the mouse and keyboard input (if possible), so that the mouse is
confined to the Tux Paint window.  Default is to not grab.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nowheelmouse \-\-wheelmouse
By default, the wheel (jog dial) on a mouse will be used to scroll the
'selector' on the right of the screen.  This can be disabled, and the wheel
completely ignored, with the "--nowheelmouse" option. This is useful for
children who aren't yet comfortable with the mouse. Default is to support
the wheel.

.TP 8
.B \-\-mouse-accessibility
In this mode, instead of clicking, dragging and releasing (e.g., to draw),
you click, move, and click again to end the motion. ("Sticky mouse
clicks.")

.TP 8
.B \-\-keyboard \-\-mouse
The "--keyboard" option lets the mouse pointer in Tux Paint be controlled
with the keyboard.  The [Up], [Down], [Left], and [Right] arrow keys move
the pointer. [Spacebar] acts as the mouse button.

.TP 8
.B \-\-nobuttondistinction \-\-buttondistinction
By default, only mouse button #1 (typically the leftmost mouse button on
mice with more than one button) can be used for interacting with Tux Paint.
 With the "--nobuttondistinction" option, mouse buttons #2 (middle) and #3
(right) can be used, as well. This is useful for children who aren't yet
comfortable with the mouse. Default is to only recognize button #1.

.SS ONSCREEN KEYBOARD
.TP 8
.B \-\-onscreen-keyboard
Presents a clickable on-screen keyboard when using the Text and Label
tools.

.TP 8
.B \-\-onscreen-keyboard-layout \fILAYOUT\fP
Specify the default layout for the on-screen keyboard (see above).

.TP 8
.B \-\-onscreen-keyboard-disable-change
Disables the left/right arrow buttons visible on the on-screen keyboard,
which are used to switch between the available on-screen keyboard layouts.

.SS JOYSTICK
.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-dev=\fIDEVICE\fP
何番目のジョイスティックデバイスを使うかを設定します。標準では
0 （最初のジョイスティック）

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-dev=list
List the system's available joysticks and exit. (Does not launch Tux
Paint.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-slowness=\fISPEED\fP
ジョイスティックの感度を SPEED の値で設定します。0
から 500 までの値が設定できます。標準の値は 15 です。

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-threshold=\fITHRESHOLD\fP
ジョイスティックでポインターを動かし始めるためのしきい値を
THRESHOLD の値で設定します。0 から 32766
までの値が設定できます。標準の値は 3200 です。

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-maxsteps=\fISTEPS\fP
ポインターの移動速度の上限を STEPS
にピクセル単位で設定します。1 から 7
までの値が設定可能で、標準の値は 7 です。

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-hat-timeout=\fIMILLISECONDS\fP
ジョイスティックのハットスイッチを押し続けたときに、ポインターが連続して動き始めるまでの時間を
MILLISECONDS にミリ秒単位で設定します。0 から 3000
までの値が設定可能で、標準の設定は 1000 です。

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-hat-slowness=\fISPEED\fP
ハットスイッチの感度を設定します。設定可能な値は 0
から 500 で、標準の値は 15 です。

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-btn-escape=\fIBUTTON\fP
ジョイスティックの BUTTON NUMBER で設定したボタンに "ESC"
キーの機能を割り当てます。（ダイアログの "もどる"
や "やめる" で使います）

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-btn-\fICOMMAND\fP=\fIBUTTON\fP
Selects the joystick button number, as seen by SDL, that will be a shortcut
to various tools within Tux Paint.

.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 2
-
brush | ふで
.TP 2
-
stamp | はんこ
.TP 2
-
lines | せん
.TP 2
-
shapes | かたち
.TP 2
-
text | もじ
.TP 2
-
label | ラベル
.TP 2
-
magic | まほう
.TP 2
-
undo | とりけし
.TP 2
-
redo | やりなおし
.TP 2
-
eraser | けしゴム
.TP 2
-
new | さいしょから
.TP 2
-
open | ひらく
.TP 2
-
save | セーブ
.TP 2
-
pgsetup | Print (dialog)
.TP 2
-
print | Print (immediate)
.RE
.PD

.TP 8
.B \-\-joystick-buttons-ignore=\fIBUTTON1,BUTTON2,...\fP
A set of joystick button numbers, as seen by SDL, that should be ignored.
Otherwise, unless they are used by one of the "--joystick-btn-..." options
above, buttons will be seen as a mouse left-click.  Comma-separated.

.SH OPTIONS - PRINTING
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter how Tux Paint handles
printing.  They can be used along with, instead of, or to override options
set in configuration files. (See below.)

.SS PRINT PERMISSIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-noprint \-\-print
Disable or enable (default) the Print command within Tux Paint.

.TP 8
.B \-\-printdelay=\fISECONDS\fP \-\-printdelay=0
Only allow printing (via the Print command) once every SECONDS seconds. 
Default is 0 (no limitation).

.SS SHOW PRINTER DIALOG
.TP 8
.B \-\-altprintmod \-\-altprintnever \-\-altprintalways
These options control whether an system printer dialog appears when the
user clicks the Print button.  By default ("--altprintmod"), pressing [Alt]
while clicking Print will bring up a dialog (unless you're in fullscreen
mode).  With "--altprintalways", the dialog will always appear, even if
[Alt] is not being held.  With "--altprintnever", the dialog will never
appear, even if [Alt] is being held.

.SS SAVE PRINTER CONFIGURATION
.TP 8
.B \-\-printcfg \-\-noprintcfg
(Windows and Mac OS X only.)  Enable or disable loading and saving of
printer settings.  By default, Tux Paint will print to the default printer
with default settings.  Pressing [Alt] while pushing the Print button will
cause a printer dialog to appear (as long as you're not in fullscreen mode;
see also "--altprintalways" and "--altprintnever", below.)  Unless
"--noprintcfg" is used, your previous settings will be loaded when Tux
Paint starts up, and setting changes will be saved for next time.

.SS PRINT COMMANDS
.TP 8
.B \-\-printcommand \fICOMMAND\fP
(Only when PostScript printing is used.) Have Tux Paint print via an
alternate command, rather than lpr(1).

.TP 8
.B \-\-altprintcommand \fICOMMAND\fP
(Only when PostScript printing is used.) Have Tux Paint print via an
alternate command, when a dialog is expect (e.g., when holding [Alt] while
clicking Print; see above), rather than kprinter.

.SS PAPER SIZE
.TP 8
.B \-\-papersize \fIPAPERSIZE\fP
(Only when PostScript printing is used.) Ask Tux Paint to generate
PostScript of a particular paper size. Valid sizes are those supported by
libpaper.  See papersize(5).

.SH OPTIONS - SAVING
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter how Tux Paint
operates when saving or exporting drawings.  They can be used along with,
instead of, or to override options set in configuration files. (See below.)

.SS SAVE OVER EARLIER WORK
.TP 8
.B \-\-saveover \-\-saveovernew \-\-saveoverask
If, when saving a picture, an older version of the file will be
overwritten, Tux Paint will, by default, ask for confirmation: either save
over the old file, or create a new file.  This prompt can be disabled with
"--saveover" (which always saves over older versions of pictures) or
"--saveovernew" (which always saves a new file). The default is to prompt
("--saveoverask").

.SS SAVE AND EXPORT DIRECTORIES
.TP 8
.B \-\-savedir \fIDIR\fP
Specify where Tux Paint should save and load its drawings.

.TP 8
.B \-\-exportdir \fIDIR\fP
Specify where Tux Paint should export drawings and animations.

.SS MORE SAVING OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-nosave \-\-save
The --nosave option disables Tux Paint's ability to save files. This can be
used in situations where the program is only being used for fun, or in a
test environment.

.TP 8
.B \-\-autosave \-\-noautosave
The --autosave option prevents Tux Paint from asking whether you want to
save the current picture when quitting, and assumes you do.

.TP 8
.B \-\-reversesort \-\-noautosave
The --reversesort option causes Tux Paint's Open and Slideshow dialogs to
display the oldest images at the top of the list (normally the newest
appear at the top, and the oldest at the bottom.

.SH OPTIONS - DATA FILES
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter where Tux Paint loads
data (stamps, brushes, etc.)  They can be used along with, instead of, or
to override options set in configuration files. (See below.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-datadir \fIDIR\fP
Specify where Tux Paint should look for personal data files (brushes,
stamps, etc.).

.TP 8
.B \-\-colorfile \fIFILE\fP
This option allows you to override the default color palette in Tux Paint
and replace it with your own. The file should be a plain ASCII text file
containing one color description per line. Colors may be in decimal or 6-
or 3-digit hexadecimal, and followed by a description. (For example,
"\fI#000 Black\fP" and "\fI255 192 64 Orange\fP".)

.SH OPTIONS - LANGUAGE
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter the language used by
Tux Paint's interface, and other related settings.  They can be used along
with, instead of, or to override options set in configuration files. (See
below.)

.l
Various parts of Tux Paint have been translated into numerous languages.
Tux Paint will try its best to honor your locale setting (i.e., the "LANG"
environment variable), if possible. You can also specifically set the
language using options on the command-line or in a configuration file.

.TP 8
.B \-\-locale \fILOCALE\fP
Specify the language to use, based on locale name (which is typically of
the form "language[_territory][.codeset][@modifier], where "language" is an
ISO 639 language code, "territory" is an ISO 3166 country code, and
"codeset" is a character set or encoding identifier like "ISO-8859-1" or
"UTF-8".)
.PP
.RS
For example, "de_DE@euro" for German, or "pt_BR" for Brazilian Portuguese.
.RE

.TP 8
.B \-\-lang \fILANGUAGE\fP
Specify the language to use, based on the language's name (as recognized by
Tux Paint).  Choose one of the language names listed below:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 2
-
english | american-english
.TP 2
-
acholi | acoli
.TP 2
-
afrikaans
.TP 2
-
akan | twi-fante
.TP 2
-
albanian
.TP 2
-
amharic
.TP 2
-
arabic
.TP 2
-
aragones
.TP 2
-
armenian | hayeren
.TP 2
-
assamese
.TP 2
-
asturian
.TP 2
-
azerbaijani
.TP 2
-
australian-english
.TP 2
-
bambara
.TP 2
-
basque | euskara
.TP 2
-
belarusian | bielaruskaja
.TP 2
-
bengali
.TP 2
-
bodo
.TP 2
-
bokmal
.TP 2
-
bosnian
.TP 2
-
brazilian-portuguese | portugues-brazilian | brazilian
.TP 2
-
breton | brezhoneg
.TP 2
-
british | british-english
.TP 2
-
bulgarian
.TP 2
-
canadian-english
.TP 2
-
catalan | catala
.TP 2
-
chinese | simplified-chinese
.TP 2
-
croatian | hrvatski
.TP 2
-
czech | cesky
.TP 2
-
danish | dansk
.TP 2
-
dogri
.TP 2
-
dutch | nederlands
.TP 2
-
esperanto
.TP 2
-
estonian
.TP 2
-
faroese
.TP 2
-
finnish | suomi
.TP 2
-
french | francais
.TP 2
-
fula | fulah | pulaar-fulfulde
.TP 2
-
gaelic | irish-gaelic | gaidhlig
.TP 2
-
galician | galego
.TP 2
-
georgian
.TP 2
-
german | deutsch
.TP 2
-
greek
.TP 2
-
gronings | zudelk-veenkelonioals
.TP 2
-
gujarati
.TP 2
-
hebrew
.TP 2
-
hindi
.TP 2
-
hungarian | magyar
.TP 2
-
icelandic | islenska
.TP 2
-
indonesian | bahasa-indonesia
.TP 2
-
inuktitut
.TP 2
-
italian | italiano
.TP 2
-
japanese
.TP 2
-
kabyle | kabylian
.TP 2
-
kannada
.TP 2
-
kashmiri-devanagari
.TP 2
-
kashmiri-perso-arabic
.TP 2
-
kiga | chiga
.TP 2
-
kinyarwanda
.TP 2
-
khmer
.TP 2
-
klingon | tlhIngan
.TP 2
-
konkani-devanagari
.TP 2
-
konkani-roman
.TP 2
-
korean
.TP 2
-
kurdish
.TP 2
-
latvian
.TP 2
-
lithuanian | lietuviu
.TP 2
-
luganda
.TP 2
-
luxembourgish | letzebuergesch
.TP 2
-
macedonian
.TP 2
-
maithili
.TP 2
-
malay
.TP 2
-
malayalam
.TP 2
-
manipuri-bengali
.TP 2
-
manipuri-meitei-mayek
.TP 2
-
marathi
.TP 2
-
mexican-spanish | espanol-mejicano | mexican
.TP 2
-
mongolian
.TP 2
-
ndebele
.TP 2
-
nepali
.TP 2
-
northern-sotho | sesotho-sa-leboa
.TP 2
-
norwegian | nynorsk | norsk
.TP 2
-
occitan
.TP 2
-
odia | oriya
.TP 2
-
ojibway | ojibwe
.TP 2
-
persian
.TP 2
-
polish | polski
.TP 2
-
portuguese | portugues
.TP 2
-
punjabi | panjabi
.TP 2
-
romanian
.TP 2
-
russian | russkiy
.TP 2
-
sanskrit
.TP 2
-
santali-devanagari
.TP 2
-
santali-ol-chiki
.TP 2
-
sardinian
.TP 2
-
scottish | scottish-gaelic | ghaidhlig
.TP 2
-
serbian
.TP 2
-
serbian-latin
.TP 2
-
shuswap | secwepemctin
.TP 2
-
shuswap-devanagari
.TP 2
-
sindhi-perso-arabic
.TP 2
-
slovak
.TP 2
-
slovenian | slovensko
.TP 2
-
songhay
.TP 2
-
southafrican-english
.TP 2
-
spanish | espanol
.TP 2
-
sundanese
.TP 2
-
swahili
.TP 2
-
swedish | svenska
.TP 2
-
tagalog
.TP 2
-
tamil
.TP 2
-
telugu
.TP 2
-
thai
.TP 2
-
tibetan
.TP 2
-
traditional-chinese
.TP 2
-
turkish
.TP 2
-
twi
.TP 2
-
ukrainian
.TP 2
-
urdu
.TP 2
-
valencian
.TP 2
-
venda
.TP 2
-
venetian | veneto
.TP 2
-
vietnamese
.TP 2
-
walloon | walon
.TP 2
-
welsh | cymraeg
.TP 2
-
wolof
.TP 2
-
xhosa
.TP 2
-
zapotec | miahuatlan-zapotec
.TP 2
-
zulu
.RE
.PD

.TP 8
.B \-\-lang help
Display a lists of all supported languages.

.TP 8
.B \-\-mirrorstamps \-\-dontmirrorstamps
With "--mirrorstamps" set, stamps which can be mirrored will appear
mirrored by default.  This can be useful when used by people who prefer
things right-to-left over left-to-right.

.SS FONTS
.TP 8
.B \-\-nosysfonts \-\-sysfonts
Tux Paint normally attempts to search for additional TrueType Fonts
installed in common places on your system.  If this causes trouble, or
you'd prefer to only make fonts installed in Tux Paint's directory
available, use the "--nosysfonts" option to disable this feature.

.TP 8
.B \-\-alllocalefonts \-\-currentlocalefont
Tux Paint avoids loading any fonts found in its "locale" font subdirectory,
except any that match the current locale Tux Paint is running under. Use
the "--alllocalefonts" option to load all such fonts, for use in the Text
and Label tools. (This was the default behavior, prior to version 0.9.21.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-uifont=\fI"FONT NAME"\fP \-\-uifont=default
Specify the name of a font for Tux Paint to attempt to use for its user
interface (UI) -- button labels, dialog pop-up text, instructional text at
the bottom. If left unspecified, or "default" is given, then "DejaVu Sans"
will be used. (This was the default behavior, prior to version 0.9.31.)

.SH OPTIONS - MISCELLANEOUS
.l
\fItuxpaint\fP accepts the following options to alter its behavior. They
can be used along with, instead of, or to override options set in
configuration files. (See below.)

.TP 8
.B \-\-nosysconfig
With this option, Tux Paint will not attempt to read the system-wide
configuration file (typically "/etc/tuxpaint/tuxpaint.conf" or
"/usr/local/etc/tuxpaint/tuxpaint.conf").

.TP 8
.B \-\-nolockfile
By default, Tux Paint uses a lockfile (stored in the user's local Tux Paint directory) which prevents it from being launched more than once in 30 seconds. (Sometimes children get too eager, or user interfaces only require one click, but users think they need to double-click.) This option makes Tux Paint ignore the current lockfile.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.ad l
While Tux Paint may refer to a number of environment variables indirectly
(e.g., via SDL(3)), it directly accesses the following: (See "FILES" below,
as well.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B HOME
to determine where picture files go when using the Save and Open commands
within Tux Paint, to keep track of the current image, when quitting and
restarting Tux Paint, and to get the user's configuration file.

.TP 8
.B LANG, LC_ALL, LANGUAGE, and LC_MESSAGES
to determine language to use, if setlocale(3) refers to "LC_MESSAGES".

.TP 8
.B SDL_VIDEO_ALLOW_SCREENSAVER
Set this environment variable to '1' to allow a screensaver to appear while
Tux Paint is running. This can also be done via the "--allowscreensaver"
option.

.TP 8
.B SDL_VIDEO_WINDOW_POS
If this is NOT set, Tux Paint will set it to "center", to attempt to place
the Tux Paint window in the center of a display. If it IS set (e.g., to
"nopref", meaning "no preference"), Tux Paint will not override it.

.SH FILES
.TP 8
.B [/usr/local/]/etc/tuxpaint/tuxpaint.conf
System-wide configuration file.  It is read first (unless the
"--nosysconfig" option was given on the command-line).
.RS
.PP
(Created during installation.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaintrc
User's configuration file.  It can be used to set default options (rather
than setting them on the command-line every time), and/or to override any
settings in the system-wide configuration file.
.RS
.PP
(Not created or edited automatically; must be created manually. You can do
this by hand, or use tuxpaint-config(1).)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/saved/
A directory of previously-saved images (and thumbnails).  Only files in
this directory will be made available using the Open command within Tux
Paint.  Overridden via the "--savedir" option.
.RS
.PP
(Created when Save command is used.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/current_id.txt
A reference to the image which was being edited when Tux Paint was last
quit.  (This image is automatically loaded the next time Tux Paint is
re-run, unless the "--startblank" option is set.)
.RS
.PP
(Created when Tux Paint is Quit.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $HOME/.tuxpaint/lockfile.dat
A lockfile that prevents Tux Paint from being launched more than once every
30 seconds.  Disable checking the lockfile by using the "--nolockfile"
option.
.RS
.PP
(There's no reason to delete the lockfile, as it contains a timestamp
inside which causes it to expire after 30 seconds.)
.RE
.TP 8
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME[XDG_PICTURES_DIR]/TuxPaint/
A directory where images and animations should be exported (via options
found in Tux Paint's Open dialog), if the "--exportdir" option is not used
to override it.  If "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME" is set, a configuration file
"user-dirs.dirs" will be scanned within the directory it points to; if not,
Tux Paint will attempt to do so within "$HOME/.config/".  If a setting
named "XDG_PICTURES_DIR" is found, it will be used as the location to
export images. If all else fails, then "$HOME/Pictures/" will be used.  A
"TuxPaint" subdirectory will be created.
.TP 8
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME/Trash/ or $HOME/.local/share/Trash/
A directory where images are placed when the Erase option is used from the
Open dialog.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

.SH OTHER INFO
See the documentation that comes with Tux Paint for further instructions on using the program's features.

The canonical place to find Tux Paint information is at
.nh
https://tuxpaint.org/.
.hy

.SH AUTHORS
Lead developer and project manager: Bill Kendrick
.nh
<bill@newbreedsoftware.com>.
.hy

With patches, fixes, extensions, porting, translations, documentation, and
more from lots of people, including, but probably not limited to (see
AUTHORS.txt and CHANGES.txt):

Aki,
Ashish Arora,
Khalid Al Holan,
Daniel Andersson,
Hodorog Andrei,
Joana Portia Antwi-Danso,
Adorilson Bezerra de Araujo,
Xandru Armesto,
Ben Armstrong,
Ravishankar Ayyakkannu,

Dwayne Bailey,
Matías Bellone,
Martin Benjamin,
Besnik Bleta,
Denis Bodor,
Rahul Borade,
Yacine Bouklif,
Miguel Anxo Bouzada,
René Brandenburger,
Herman Bruyninckx,
Lucie Burianova,
Laurentiu Buzdugan,

Albert Cahalan,
Pere Pujal i Carabantes,
Hugo Carvalho,
Felipe Castro,
Ouychai Chaita,
Zdenek Chalupský,
Wei-Lun Chao,
Jacques Chion,
Ankit Choudary,
Yuri Chornoivan,
Abdoul Cisse,
Urska Colner,
Adam 'akanewbie' Corcoran,
Helder Correia,
Ricardo Cruz,

Magnus Dahl,
Laurent Dhima,
Chandrakant Dhutadmal,
Yavor Doganov,
Joe Dalton,
Tim Dickson,
Dawa Dolma,
Kevin Donnelly,
Dovix,
Korvigellou An Drouizig (Philippe),
Serhij Dubyk,

Ander Elortondo,
Alberto Escudero-Pascual,

T. Surya Fajri,
Jamil Farzana,
Sveinn í Felli,
Doruk Fisek,
Flavia Floris,
Fòram na Gàidhlig,
Fabian Franz,
Derrick Frimpong,
Martin Fuhrer,
Fula Localization Project,

Alexander Gabillondo,
Gabriel Gazzan,
Robert Buj Gelonch,
Alexander Geroimenko,
Torsten Giebl,
Harvey Ginter,
Solomon Gizaw,
Robert Glowczynski,
Chris Goerner,
Mikel González,
Volker Grabsch,
The Greek Linux i18n Team,
Edmund GRIMLEY EVANS,
Frederico Goncalves Guimaraes,

Joe Hanson,
Sam "Criswell" Hart,
Guy Hed,
Farinaz Hedayat,
Prasanta Hembram,
Willem Heppe,
Tedi Heriyanto,
Pjetur G. Hjaltason,
Knut Erik Hollund,
Henrik Holst,
Khaled Hosny,
Henry House,
Mohomodou Houssouba,
Song Huang,
Karl Ove Hufthammer,

Roland Illig,
Daniel Illingworth,
Indigenas Sin Fronteras,
Juan Irigoien,
Students of Vocational Higher Secondary School Irimpanam,
Ivana Rakic,
Dmitriy Ivanov,

Mogens Jaeger,
Lis Gøthe í Jákupsstovu,
Nedjeljko Jedvaj,
Aleksandar Jelenak,
Rasmus Erik Voel Jensen,
Lauri Jesmin,
Wang Jian,
Amed Ç. Jiyan,
Petri Jooste,
Richard June,

Andrej Kacian,
Thomas Kalka,
Jorma Karvonen,
Yannis Kaskamanidis,
Kazuhiko,
Gabor Kelemen,
Mark Kim,
Thomas Klausner,
Koby,
Marcin 'Shard' Konicki,
Ines Kovacevic,
Mantas Kriauciunas,
Freek de Kruijf,
Andrzej M. Krzysztofowicz,
Piotr Kwilinski,
Serafeim Kyriaki,

Matthew Lange,
Fabio Lazarin,
Niko Lewman,
Arkadiusz Lipiec,
Ricky Lontoc,
Dag H. Loras,
Burkhard Luck,

Nuno Magalhães,
Vincent Mahlangu,
Ankit Malik,
Neskie Manuel,
Fred Ulisses Maranhao,
Yannig MARCHEGAY (Kokoyaya),
Jorge Mariano,
Martin,
Sergio Marques,
Pheledi Mathibela,
Scott McCreary,
Marco Milanesi,
Never Min,
Kartik Mistry,
Mugunth,
Benson Muite,
Steve Murphy,
Samuel Murray (Groenkloof),

Shumani Mercy Nehulaudzi,
Mikkel Kirkgaard Nielsen,
Alesis Novik,
Nudjaree,
Daniel Nylander,

Olli,
Sven Ollino,
James Olweny,
Teresa Orive,
Gareth Owen,

Quentin PAGÈS,
Sorin Paliga,
Yannis Papatzikos,
Nikolay Parukhin,
Alessandro Pasotti,
Flavio Pastor,
Patrick,
George Patrick,
Primoz Peterlin,
Le Quang Phan,
Henrik Pihl,
Auk Piseth,
Pablo Pita,
Milan Plzik,
Eric Poncet,
Sergei Popov,
John Popplewell,

Adam 'foo-script' Rakowski,
Rodrigo Perez Ramirez and Indigenas Sin Fronteras,
Sebastian Rasmussen,
Robert Readman,
Leandro Regueiro,
Samir Ribić,
Jozef Říha,
Simona Riva,
Robin Rosenberg,
Ilir Rugova,
Jaroslav Rynik,

Bert Saal,
Ibraahiima SAAR,
Saikumar,
Samuel Sarpong,
Kevin Patrick Scannell,
Stephanie Schilling,
Luc 'Begasus' Schrijvers,
Kiriaki SERAFEIM,
Pavithran Shakamuri,
Gia Shervashidze,
Clytie Siddall,
Kliment Simoncev,
Tomas Skäre,
Sokratis Sofianopoulos,
Khoem Sokhem,
Geert Stams,
Peter Sterba,
Raivis Strogonovs,
Luis C. Suárez,
Sugar Labs i18n team,

Tomasz 'karave' Tarach,
Michal Terbert,
Ignacia Tike,
Tilo,
Tarmo Toikkanen,
TOYAMA Shin-ichi,
Niall Tracey,
Gerasim Troeglazov,
tropikhajma,
Florence Tushabe,

Matej Urbančič,

Rita Verbauskaite,
Daniel Jose Viana,
Charles Vidal,

Darrell Walisser,
Frank Weng,

Damian Yerrick,

Muhammad Najmi Ahmad Zabidi,
臧传明,
Eugene Zelenko,
Martin Zhekov,
and
Huang Zuzhen.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tuxpaint-import (1),
.BR tuxpaint-config (1),
.BR tp-magic-config (1),
.BR xpaint (1),
.BR gpaint (1),
.BR gimp (1),
.BR kolourpaint (1),
.BR krita (1),
.BR gcompris (1)
.PP
And documentation within /usr/[local/]share/doc/tuxpaint/.
